# s3 object storage on JASMIN

Aim: publish our data in a cloud service where it can be re-used without making local copies, be searchable through a catalogue, and have changes tracked in source control.

## Storage location 

Our JASMIN Group Workspace provides storage for drone-based projects including MAMBO and AgZero+. It's "short-term", years rather than decades. UKCEH does have medium-term plans to host its own object storage in-house.

`s3` is a de facto standard originally from Amazon Web Services. Documentation for tools describes use with AWS, but it's usable with JASMIN object storage just the same.

[s3 portal](https://s3-portal.jasmin.ac.uk/) shows you which object stores you have got access to. Within each store you can create _keys_ for authenticating when uploading new data. There are two keys, an `access key` which is always shown, and a `secret key` which you only get to see once.

## Tools for uploading data

### s3cmd

`[s3cmd](https://github.com/s3tools/s3cmd)` is a python-based commandline tool for interacting with s3 storage.

Install via pip:

`pip install s3cmd`

Create a `.s3cfg` file with credentials. This should live _in your home directory_, not your project directory. It looks like this, with the values in square brackets replaced by the keys you get from the [s3 portal](https://s3-portal.jasmin.ac.uk/)

```
access_key = [access key] 
host_base = [store name].s3-ext.jc.rl.ac.uk
host_bucket = [store_name].s3-ext.jc.rl.ac.uk
secret_key = [secret key] 
use_https = True
signature_v2 = False 
```

### Make a bucket

A bucket is a collection of data. 

`s3cmd mb s3://hawthorn`

This should now show a new bucket in the JASMIN s3 portal. There doesn't seem to be a web interface to create them.





